Let's now finally finish up
this login functionality part.
And remember how I said that in this video
I wanted to implement a really nice alert
for when the user successfully logs in, and so
to see that let's log the user out
for now by removing the cookie manually.
Let's reload, and so now of course
the user should no longer be logged in,
and indeed it isn't.
As we already know, that's because the cookie
wasn't sent in the request.
So there is logged in middleware that we created
in the last video
did not put the user object into response.locals,
remember that?
So if it's not there the user manual will not be rendered,
and instead this part gets rendered
so that we now can click here on Log In.
So that alert that I was talking about before
I want it to show up here basically at the beginning
and then after a second and a half
we still want to do that reload.
So moving to the main homepage.
Anyway let's create some functions
for this alert in yet another separate file.
So new file,
alert.js.
All right, but now before we can actually move on
we need to think a little bit
about our front-end architecture here.
Now this course, of course, is not about the front-end,
but still we need to at least care
a little bit about it here,
because we're really starting to get
a nice amount of files here,
and including all of them into our pages
is not a good practice.
So
such as we've been doing here.
So this is not a good practice.
We should only have one big JavaScript file
which includes all the code.
So in modern JavaScript front-end development
we usually use something called a module bundler.
The most popular one is probably still Webpack,
but usually Webpack gives us a lot of problems
and it's really a pain to set it up.
So there's actually a very nice new kid on the block,
so to say, which is called Parcel.
So we'll take a look at that, see if it already shows up,
and indeed, that's the one.
So blazing fast, zero configuration web application bundler.
So that's exactly what we're looking for.
Simply a bundler which doesn't require
any complex configurations, because
we don't want to waste any time with that.
All right, so let's just go ahead and install it here.
So npm install
and I'm not sure if it's just Parcel actually.
So
let's go back here.
Probably that is Parcel.js or something,
because I remember the last time I installed it
it didn't work right away, so let's check that.
Yeah, indeed, it is Parcel-bundler.
Now we got some error.
Okay, so I forgot to save it as a dev dependency.
So we actually want it as a save dev, okay,
and that's because it's a development tool.
Now still something went wrong.
Let me try it with sudo here.
And so if it didn't work in your case as well
then just use sudo in order to get the proper permissions.
All right, so let's take a look at our package.json
and indeed here it is, all right.
Now if you're watching this video
some time after I recorded it
they might already have gone to version number two
and that as we already know
might introduce some breaking changes.
And so going forward from this point if you get any errors
that you didn't see here in the video
then please go ahead and install this package here
using version .1,
okay.
So basically
add one like this, okay.
So this then adverts you running into these weird errors
and hopefully it also saves me
from tons of negative comments
or negative reviews that expect me to update all my videos
every other week just because some tool gets updated,
and of course that's not possible.
So many times the easiest solution
is simply for you to use the same version
as I am using in the video, all right.
Anyway, now in order to actually use Parcel
let's add some scripts here.
So I'm adding one to watch or JavaScript.
Okay, and for that
I use the Parcel watch command.
This would actually already run just fine out of the box,
but I still want to configure a little bit,
because otherwise, it's gonna put me the final bundle
in some folders that I don't want them.
So let's specify which folder it actually should watch.
So that's public/JavaScript and then index.js,
so that's our entry point
and that's the file that we're gonna create in a second.
Okay.
Then the output directory
should also be into public.js,
okay.
Many times you will have different folders
for the development and for the output,
but in this case since it's a very simple architecture
I'm going to put the bundle file right in the same place
as the development files.
All right, let's also specify the
the output file
and so that should be bundle.js,
all right.
So now I can run this and it will then take a look
at this file here and see if something changes
or in one of the dependencies
and whenever that happens it will then
bundle all of the files together again
into this bundle.js file, all right.
Then let's also duplicate this,
because we also want a final,
let's say production version, okay.
So this one we are going to run ones where
they're really finished, okay.
So that takes a bit longer, but it also does
a bit more optimization stuff, but
that of course we don't need for development.
In development as always, we just want it to work.
So let's do npm run
watch:js, but before we do that let's actually create
the index.js.
Let's close some of these folders here.
It's a bit too confusing like this.
So index.js and let's just do a simple
console.log here for now.
Hello from Parcel,
all right.
Then let's also go to our base here
and then we'll actually now comment out all of these
and only include
the bundle file.
So again, one file which will basically contain
all the code that's in all the other files
and all their dependencies.
So let's give it a save, and now let's actually run this,
see what we get there.
And indeed, we got our new file, which is bundle.js
and it has all this bunch of code already in there,
okay, simply for this one line of code at this point.
But anyway let's reload our page here,
and hello from Parcel.
So that worked, and so now let's go ahead
and actually setup this file here.
So to avoid confusion let's close
these files that we no longer need
for what we're doing right now.
So that's a lot of stuff.
All right, this one either.
So now the idea is basically that this index.js file
is our entry file, and so in this one
we cannot get data from the user interface
and then we delegate actions to some functions
coming from these other modules here basically.
So we have now the login module,
we have our alerts module,
and so just like in Node.js
we can actually now export data from these modules.
So let's do that, and what I want to export
is this function here.
Now it works a little bit different
than it works with Node.js
because Node.js uses something called CommonJS
in order to implement modules.
I'm not sure if I mentioned that
when we first talked about modules,
but here in front-end JavaScript since ES2015 or ES6
there's something called modules in JavaScript as well.
The syntax is a bit different,
but actually the way it works behind the scenes,
but actually if you understand how it works with CommonJS
then this one here will be very similar.
So ES6 modules use the export import syntax.
So here all we need to do is to say export
and then whatever we want to export from this file,
and that's really it.
Now this piece of code here we will actually use it
in the index file.
So remember how I said that this file here
is more to really get data from the user interface
and then delegate the action.
So that's exactly what we are doing here, okay.
So then here we only have this kind of module
which then exports the login function.
Then we can import that in here
and call login right here in index.js
and that works like this.
So import instead of require
then the name of the variable that we want to import.
So I'm using curly braces here.
So it's called login
and then from the name of the file.
Which in this case, same directory, login.
Now let's also disable eslint here again,
and I used these curly braces here,
basically because we're doing the export in this way,
but there's also something similar to module.export
which is kind of the default export.
So in ES6 modules it's actually called a default export.
So in that case we then would not need these curly braces.
Okay.
Right now we need to do it like this,
because well that's the name of this function
that we exported, all right.
Now something really important as well in this login
is that we used axios.
And remember how I said that we were going to install it
actually from npm as an npm module, right?
So let's do that now, and actually because we already
commented out axios from here.
So right now login cannot use axios.
Well because we no longer included it here.
So let's go add, open up a new terminal
and install axios into our project.
Then now all we need to do is to say import axios
from axios, and that's it,
all right.
So this file, for now at least, is done
but let's not close it because we will
still need it very soon.
Next up we should actually also install a polyfill,
which will make some of the newer JavaScript features
work in older browsers as well.
So let's say npm install
and then this one here looks a bit weird.
So let's add babel/polyfill,
like this.
Then up here we will do
import
just like this, all right.
So this one here we do not save it into any variable,
because that's not necessary at all.
All we want this to do is to basically be included
into our final bundle to well polyfill
some of the features of JavaScript.
All right, and so that's also why it's here
in the first line of these imports.
Anyway, let's now import this mapbox as well.
For that we actually need to first create a function
which is going to do all of this stuff here.
Okay.
So let's create
export
displayMap, which will take in the array of locations.
So that will then actually be read in the index.js file,
all right.
So again, index.js is more for getting data
from the user interface, so from the website,
and then delegating some actions into these other modules,
all right.
So therefore, this stuff here will be done inside of index.
Let's do it up here.
Then import
displayMap
mapbox,
all right.
So let's call that as well
with the locations.
Now remember way back when we actually created this map
and remember how it asked us if we wanted to use
the mapbox library on npm?
So we could now go ahead and actually use that one
instead of this one that we're using right now.
So
well it's not here.
Yeah, so this one.
So this here is the mapbox library
that we're currently using, but again
there's also an npm version.
So then we would not need to have this one.
However, for some reason there's a problem with
using this library together with Parcel, okay.
So other people actually run into this issue.
So we cannot use the mapbox npm library
together with Parcel.
So that's a reason why I'm still doing it like this.
Okay.
So mapbox is completed with this.
This we don't need anymore, as well.
Now let's actually get rid of some of these errors
that we saw down here.
Well now they're no longer here,
but for example we had the problem that
this code here created some errors
when we were on pages that didn't have this map here, right.
Because of course on the detail page has this map
so this element, but then this code of course
runs on all the other pages,
that will then create errors there.
So let's fix that.
So what I'm doing here is first to create an element
with this and then test if it actually exists
before we execute this line of code.
So we will create some DOM elements here.
And here I'd say
delegation.
So if mapbox
and only then to these two actions here,
okay.
Here it's also then mapbox
and that's much nicer.
Here let's also put values,
and I'm going to put these two
because actually we might need them
or actually we will need them for other stuff as well.
So this way it's a bit cleaner.
Let's also only add this event listener here
if this element exists, right.
Because well, again, it will create an error if it doesn't.
So loginform,
and so
if
and then let's reuse it here, give it a save,
and so now that looks better.
Okay.
Let's actually close this terminal.
This you should of kept bundling our code together
each time there's a save.
Let's just save it here again.
Okay, so I hope that changed now.
So let's go ahead and try that out.
So if you can still login at this point
well then that means that it did actually work.
Well maybe not.
Let's try that again here.
All right, so there's something wrong going on here.
So as always let's log this email and password
to the console here.
I mean, because we already know that actually
this function here is called, right.
Otherwise, we wouldn't even get the error.
Right, because that error is clearly coming from our API.
So all of what we have here is actually working, I believe.
Let's take a look at the console.
So it appears that there are actually no
username and password.
Okay.
I'm not sure why that is.
Let's take a look if actually we do get something.
So login and I will also
log these right here,
not here
but here.
And so apparently the problem
must be that username and password
are not really defined.
Oh, and now of course I can see why that is.
What a stupid mistake.
So we're trying to read these values here,
right in the beginning when the page loads,
and of course at this point these values are not defined.
So we of course can only define them
right here in our event listener, right.
So by the time this function here is called
well then of course email and password are set
so then it's the time where we can read them.
So that was kind of stupid,
but, you know, sometimes that kind of stuff happens.
Now let's actually copy this here.
This time we are logged in successfully,
meaning that our code here still works.
Great, and so now let's do the final part
that we wanted to do in this lecture,
which is actually creating these alerts, all right.
So let's create a function called show alert and export it.
So then in login we will import this function
and use it there.
So showAlert
and this as an input will get a type and a message,
so just like this.
And this type
is either success
or error,
okay.
Because depending on this input we will then
have different CSS for each of these alerts
and you will see that in a second.
So what we're gonna do is to basically create some
HTML markup here and then insert that into our HTML,
so it's something really easy.
So a markup and the template string
and now some nice HTML.
So it's simply a div with a class of alert
and then
alert -- so a modifier
with our type.
Okay, and so that's why it needs to be either
success or error.
So let me quickly show that in CSS,
because I think it's really important to really know
how all of this plays together, okay.
So here we have our alert class
and then alert success and alert error.
All right.
As always let's disable eslint here,
okay, and get rid of this
and now of course here then goes the message
that we pass into this function.
Of course we could then go ahead and use this
all over the application, but in this case
we only need it actually here for our login.
So document.queryselector,
and so now here we select the element
where we want to include this HTML that we just created.
So that's actually right at the beginning
of the body element.
So right at the top of the page.
So body,
and then insert adjacent HTML, so this one here.
If you took my complete JavaScript course
then all of this here will be nothing new to you,
okay.
So here we can specify a couple of keywords,
and in this case we want afterbegin.
So basically what this means is
inside of the body, but right at the beginning, all right.
Then the HTML, so the markup,
that we actually want to include.
Great.
So this is going to create a very simple alert
based on type and method, but now we actually also
want a function for hiding alerts.
So let's create it here as well, export,
and probably we don't even need it outside of here,
but still for reusability it's always a good idea
to export all of this.
This one doesn't need to take in any argument.
So now all we're gonna do is to
select the element with the alert class
and then after that remove it.
So queryselector
alert.
So exactly the same class name as here.
Then we need to use a JavaScript trick
where we need to move one level up to the parent element
and then from there remove a child element.
So if there is an element then
element.parentElement.removeChild
and then the element.
Okay.
So again, that should just be basic JavaScript
or basic DOM manipulation.
So since this is a node course
I'm not going to go deep into that.
Anyway, what I want to do here now
is to whenever we show an alert
first hide all the alerts that already exist.
So we always just to make sure
always run hideAlert.
Then finally I also always want to hide all the alerts
after five seconds.
So window setTimeout
hideAlert
after five
seconds.
All right, and now let's import that here.
Display alert it was called, right?
Oh showAlert, with type and message.
So showAlert
from
right from that and so ...
Yeah, so we want to use that right in this place.
So instead of the JavaScript alert we want to do
showAlert, all right,
and here the same.
We still need to specify the type here,
and so that's success
in this case and here
it is error.
We hit auto-completion.
Okay, that's better.
So let's test it out.
And first of all we need to logout by deleting this cookie.
Reload,
login,
and now I'm testing it first with a wrong password
and here we go.
So incorrect email or password right in our nice alert
and you saw that after five seconds it disappeared.
Of course we could have put some
nice animation there and everything,
but I think like this it's already more than enough.
So let's see that again just quickly,
and so that's what it's going to look like,
but when it's correct then of course it should be green.
So yeah, logged in successfully
and we see a reload after one and a half seconds
and so now it really is working.
That's our complete authentication on the front-end.
That was a lot of work, but if you ask me totally worth it.
Now the only thing that's missing is
us actually logging out when we click this button here.
So right now that's not the case
and so in the next video let's fix that.